# Notes.

Talk with ECMWF on the results of the F4P analysis of ERA5 and ERA5Land by JRC
23/03/2021

# Present: 
[from JRC] Greg Duveiller, Alessandro Cescatti, Mark Pickering, Luca Caporaso
[from ECMWF] Gianpaolo Balsamo, Joaquin Munoz Sabater, Gabriele Arduini, Souhail Boussetta, Anna Agusti-Panareda
    

# Objective:

Provide an overview to ECMWF of the work done up to now and sketch an idea of where to publish this work.


# To do for JRC:

-	Check which version of C3S SoilMoisture did we use? Ideally it seems it would be best if we used v201912.0.0 (latest) and where artificial trends have been removed (from the active and the combined product).
-	Get equivalent variables from ERA5 rather than just upscaled ERA5Land

# Points noted:

-	The variable “Forecast Albedo” in ERA5 should include snow, and should be a broadband albedo which we could better compare with the standard MCD43 albedo product (the one with snow). This could be a good general comparison of albedo without  going in the details.
-	On the other hand, the decoupling of the different parts of albedo (diffuse vs direct, NIR vs VIS) is of interest to ECMWF by itself. 
-	Albedo seems to be showing decreasing trends in NIR for tropical and temperate areas, suggesting effects of the greening?
-	Could this be of interest for a separate study focusing specifically on albedo? Perhaps this could be combined with the idea of effective albedo, and links to the BAMS State of the Climate analysis could be made.
-	Main paper could focus on extremes, as that is where the main effects would be expected.
-	The main paper could explore both ERA5 and ERA5Land and see how the diagnostics provide different responses. Very interesting for ECMWF.
-	In the future, they will have dynamic runs (with both LAI and LC), partly linked to CoCO2 project, plus the model with the carbon fluxes
-	Regarding LAI, we could use the (shortly upcoming) v2 LAI from the CDS. But this will be an effective LAI, which is different from the LAI hardcoded in the current ERA5  


